Constitution of NLC STEM Club
Name:______________________
Article I: Name
The official name of this organization shall be the NLC STEM Club (separate
from the Alamo Colleges District).
Article II: Purpose
The STEM Club fosters interest, collaboration, and innovation in science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) through hands-on projects,
professional development, and outreach initiatives.
Article III: Membership
1. Membership is open to all students interested in STEM disciplines.
2. Members must attend the majority of meetings each semester to remain an
active member.
3. Endorsements can be made for officer candidates, but are not determining
factors.
4. Members must maintain a GPA above 2.5 to stay an active member and
be allowed to attend club-related activities.
Article IV: Officers and Duties
The leadership of the STEM Club shall consist of the following officers:
1. President – Oversees all club activities, presides over meetings, and
publicly represents the club. Works closely with advisors for club planning,
status updates, and any club reforms as needed.
2. Vice President – Assists the President, manages internal affairs, and
steps in when the President is unavailable. Ensures the productivity of
other officers and that all duties are being fulfilled within the club.
3. Coordinator – Organizes events and meetings, creates meeting slides,
and ensures smooth execution of club activities. This includes booking
rooms and making needed plans for any events. Assist other officers in
planning or managing any event-related business.
4. Technologist – Manages the club's technology and equipment, assists
members with technical challenges, and ensures the club stays up-to-date
with STEM advancements.
5. Treasurer – Manages club finances, oversees fundraising efforts, and
ensures proper budgeting.
6. Historian – Documents club activities, and notes, maintains an archive of
events, creates promotional materials, amends the constitution, and works
with the coordinator and presidents for recruitment efforts.
Article V: Elections and Terms
1. Officers shall be elected through an application and interview process
overseen by all officers.
2. Officer elections will be held each semester, with anyone able to apply.
3. Officers will serve for one semester and may seek re-election at the rest of
the current officers’ discretion.
4. If an officer position is vacated, a special election or appointment will be
held.
5. When votes do not determine, endorsements and letters of
recommendation from Professors and/or peers will be used when choosing
an upcoming officer.
6. Academic prowess will be prioritized and hold weight. Therefore, to be
elected to a position, that said member must be passing those current
classes for the semester.
Article VI: Meetings
1. Regular meetings shall be held at least once per month or at the discretion
of the officers and the president.
2. The President, Vice President, or Coordinator may call special meetings as
needed.
3. A quorum, defined as a majority of officers, must be present to proceed
with club business.
4. Officers must attend a majority of general meetings and officer meetings.
5. Officer meetings should be held at least once a month or at the discretion
of the officers and the president based on current club status and or club
need.
Article VII: Amendments
1. Proposed amendments must be submitted in writing to the President.
2. Amendments must be approved by a majority vote of officers.
3. Approved amendments take effect immediately unless otherwise specified.
Article VIII: Club Activity
1. Any planned club activities must be communicated with student life
advisors and club advisors.
2. As per the recommendation, it is suggested that the STEM club do as
following each semester to stay active and continue growth:
- 2 recruitment events to boost membership.
- 2 community service events to boost member participation and club
image.
- 2 external events for members and nonmembers to spread club
awareness and participation.
- 1 competition for the club image and member participation.
3. The previous recommended numbers can be increased or decreased
depending on the officer's and the president’s discretion towards the
current club status and membership participation. It is heavily advised that
future club status, image, and participation are kept in mind when making
these decisions.
Article IX: Code of Conduct
1. All members are expected to conduct themselves professionally and
respectfully.
2. Any form of harassment, discrimination, or disruptive behavior will not be
tolerated.
3. Members violating the code of conduct may face disciplinary action,
including removal from the club.
4. Each member must abide by the officers, advisors, and any official of NLC
or other organizations.
5. Officers must be in attendance for the majority of events to maintain their
position
6. If an officer isn't consistently present and or not communicating with other
officers could result in their position being vacated, as per other officers
and the president.
7. If an officer fails to meet their requirements, expectations, and duties. They
could lose their position.
8. Any action or representation done on the club's behalf must be consulted
with officers, the president, and advisors before taking place.
Article X: Finances
1. The Treasurer shall maintain accurate financial records and provide
reports to the officers and NLC Staff.
2. All expenses must be approved by a majority vote of officers and can be
overturned by the President and Vice President.
3. Fundraising efforts shall be organized to support club activities and
initiatives.
4. All finances raised and used are for the club and its members.
This constitution was thoughtfully created and ratified on 03/28/2025 by the NLC
STEM Clubs' first generation of officers. The following signifies their dedication,
support, and thoughts. It is a symbol for the potential that the STEM club was
thought to be one day, long after its establishment. Please respect and use this
constitution as a guide, role model, and blueprint for the club and its future.